# Capstone-Two-Final-Project-
These days we are very dependent on energy and all households require energy to power numerous home devices and equipment (heating and air conditioning, water heating, lighting, refrigeration, televisions, cooking appliances, clothes washers, consumer electronics including computers, tablets, smartphones, video game consoles, and internet streaming devices). Just imagine having no access to all of these for a day and you will realize the importance of a reliable energy supply. Many factors affect the amount of energy a household uses such as geographic location and climate, type of home and its physical characteristics, number, type, and efficiency of energy-consuming devices in the home, the amount of time they are used, and the number of household members. 

In an effort to be able to provide reliable energy to households and also have a prediction of how household conditions affect the energy usage, a power company (XL) and an appliance manufacturer company (AP) joined forces to sponsor a study to determine how a consumer’s house environmental conditions and meteorological variables will affect appliances' energy consumption and to develop a predictive machine learning model to estimate appliance energy consumption from those attributes. The power company is looking at reducing load by predicting when/how customers’ appliances will draw more power and adjusting the supply based on environmental conditions. This study also offers the potential to enable significant insights and energy automation in buildings. AP company is looking to identify energy efficiency improvements, predict equipment failure, and maximize cost savings by offering appliances that use less power based on where the appliances will be utilized (environmental and geographical locations). By using the Appliances' Energy consumption data, I was able to build and tune predictive models using three algorithms (Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, and Xtreme GB) with an average precision of 0.73. The models can be used to predict appliances and households’ energy consumption in extreme conditions (hot or cold, dry to extreme humidity) and enable the power company to adjust its energy supply accordingly. 
